# NFLLowerLimbDetection
Using Neural Networks for Lower Limb Detection in NFL Players

We build a model that detects key points identifying human body joints in order to ultimately prevent the number of waist-down related injuries experienced by National Football League (NFL) players on the field - this can help address the NFL’s top priority of advancing athlete health/safety and performance. We use deep learning frameworks to develop a model for waist-down joint detection. We believe neural networks are appropriate for this problem because “the multifactorial complex nature of sports injuries arise not from the linear interaction between isolated and predictive factors, but from the complex interaction among a web of determinants” (Bittencourt et al., 2016). Moreover, multiple academic papers have used deep learning methods like Faster R-CNN and DeepPose for key-point detection and pose estimation. We use publicly available videos of football game highlights and a data annotation system called LabelBox to manually create key-point annotations of football players. Specifically, we mark the location of waist-down joints including hips, knees, ankles, and toes to produce the dataset. We intend to annotate roughly 10 frames per second of video footage, which should provide enough training and testing data to build and evaluate a machine learning model. Our preliminary results will be an application of a neural network architecture to better predict and reduce lower extremity injuries faced by football players on the field.
